# Disease-candidate-genes-prediction-using-positive-labeled-and-unlabeled-instances

The proposed method is a two-step process: The first step is the extraction of reliable negative genes from a set of unlabeled genes by one-class learning and a filter based on distance indicators from known disease genes; this step is performed separately for each disease. The second step is the learning of a binary model using causing genes of each disease as a positive learning set and the reliable negative genes extracted from that disease. Each gene in the unlabeled gene's production and ranking step is assigned a normalized score using two filters and a learned model. Consequently, disease genes are predicted and ranked. The proposed method evaluation of various six diseases and Cancer class indicates better results than other studies.
The extraction of reliable negative genes in the proposed method is as follows: negative genes extraction is carried out separately for each disease in the one-class learning step. Then, the most distant negative genes from known disease genes are selected. Indeed, designing reliable negative gene extraction in such a way will enhance the trust in extracted negative genes. Disease genes will be selected separately for each disease in the binary model learning step based on the proposed method's designed scoring system. The score-relevance indicator is used for this purpose. The score of each disease gene is normalized using a scoring system. Then, it is decided whether or not to select any disease gene as positive educational data based on the score of each gene. Eventually, a binary disease model is learned using the Support Vector Machine (SVM) algorithm. The other two filters are used in the unlabeled genes' prediction and ranking step after determining the sample's label using the learned binary model. These two filters are based on: 1) each gene's distance from the support vector; 2) the closeness of the gene to disease genes. A normalized score is laid out for each gene using the designed scoring system in the proposed method and the distance of every unlabeled gene from the disease binary model's support vectors. Next, another score is laid out for each gene using a designed scoring system and score relevance related to every unlabeled gene. Eventually, a single score for each gene is obtained by formulating scores. Then, the decision is made for the unlabeled gene (in other words, whether the gene is a candidate for the disease or not). Besides, the rank of the gene is determined if it is a candidate for the disease.
